Hot reloading: add notes about the behaviour and exceptions (#4027)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/components/component-updates.md

description: "Updating deployed components used by applications"
---

When making an update to an existing deployed component used by an application, Dapr does not update the component automatically unless the [`HotReload`](#hot-reloading-preview-feature) feature gate is enabled.
The Dapr sidecar needs to be restarted in order to pick up the latest version of the component.
How this is done depends on the hosting environment.

### Kubernetes

When running in Kubernetes, the process of updating a component involves two steps:

1. Apply the new component YAML to the desired namespace
1. Unless the [`HotReload` feature gate is enabled](#hot-reloading-preview-feature), perform a [rollout restart operation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/#updating-resources) on your deployments to pick up the latest component

### Self Hosted

Unless the [`HotReload` feature gate is enabled](#hot-reloading-preview-feature), the process of updating a component involves a single step of stopping and restarting the `daprd` process to pick up the latest component.

## Hot Reloading (Preview Feature)

> > This feature is currently in [preview]({{< ref "preview-features.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
This feature is currently in [preview]({{< ref "preview-features.md" >}}).
```

> > Hot reloading is enabled by via the [`HotReload` feature gate]({{< ref "support-preview-features.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hot reloading is enabled by via the [`HotReload` feature gate]({{< ref "support-preview-features.md" >}}).
{{% /alert %}}
```

> Dapr can be made to "hot reload" components whereby component updates are picked up automatically without the need to restart the Dapr sidecar process or Kubernetes pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr can be made to "hot reload" components, whereby component updates are picked up automatically without needing to restart the Dapr sidecar process or Kubernetes pod.
```

> This means creating, updating, or deleting a component manifest will be reflected in the Dapr sidecar during runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means creating, updating, or deleting a component manifest is reflected in the Dapr sidecar during runtime.
```

{{% alert title="Updating Components" color="warning" %}}

> When a component is updated it will be first closed, then re-initialized using the new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a component is updated, it's first closed, then re-initialized using the new configuration.
```

> This will cause the component to be unavailable for a short period of time during this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This causes the component to be unavailable for a short period of time during this process.
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Initialization Errors" color="warning" %}}

> If the initialization processes errors when a component is created or updated through hot reloading, the Dapr sidecar will respect the component field [`spec.ignoreErrors`]({{< ref component-schema.md>}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the initialization processes errors when a component is created or updated through hot reloading, the Dapr sidecar respects the component field [`spec.ignoreErrors`]({{< ref component-schema.md>}}).
```

That is, the behaviour is the same as when the sidecar loads components on boot.

> - `spec.ignoreErrors=false` (*default*): the sidecar will gracefully shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `spec.ignoreErrors=false` (*default*): the sidecar gracefully shuts down.
```

> - `spec.ignoreErrors=true`: the sidecar will continue to run with neither the old or new component configuration registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `spec.ignoreErrors=true`: the sidecar will continue to run with neither the old or new component configuration registered.
```
```suggestion
- `spec.ignoreErrors=true`: the sidecar continues to run with neither the old or new component configuration registered.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> All components are supported for hot reloading except for the following types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following component types are _not supported_ for hot reloading. Any create, update, or deletion of these component types are ignored by the sidecar with a restart required to pick up changes:
```

> Any create, update, or deletion of these component types will be ignored by the sidecar with a restart required to pick up changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Actor State Stores]({{< ref "state_api.md#configuring-state-store-for-actors" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Actor state stores]({{< ref "state_api.md#configuring-state-store-for-actors" >}})
```

> - Workflow Backends - TODO: @joshvanl waiting on https://github.com/dapr/docs/issues/3924

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workflow backends - TODO: @joshvanl waiting on https://github.com/dapr/docs/issues/3924
```
